well the committee to protect
journalists has released a statement
following the incident saying that this
is another example of the high price
journalists in Gaza are paying to cover
the war so that the world can witness
what is happening it's calling for an
independent investigation to determine
if a war crime has been committed we can
now speak to Sharif mansur who's the
Mina Program Coordinator at the
committee to protect journalists he's
joining us from Washington DC Sharif
mansur thanks for your time with us
first what is your reaction to the way
these journalists were targeted using a
drone strike and also I mean they were
clearly wearing their Flack jackets
their marked press and they were in an
area that was reportedly not a combat
area well it's a horrific incident and
it shows the personal price those
journalists continue to pay every day in
order to do journalism their work gather
news about what's happening for the
world to see and it's not the first or
the second and it's the third time Al
jazer journalists specifically have been
targeted with this precise drone attacks
in December against Sam abua last month
in January against Hamza Al and today
this thankfully did not lead to any of
those journalists being killed but we're
hoping and praying for the recovery so
they can um receive the critical and
immediate help they need
uh we are of course Very alarmed and we
are calling for an independent rapid and
transparent investigation uh because if
these are targeted attacks they are
constituting C war crimes I hear what
you're saying about calling for an
independent investigation but um you
know How likely is that to happen
because we've seen this happen before
and there's been no independent
investigation into the killing of
journalists
fortunately before this war we at the
committee have documented at least 20
journalists killed including Al jazer
journalist Sharina bakla which we
classified as murdered uh two years ago
and in all of the cases the 20 cases no
journalist have been charged or held no
uh killer of journalist have been
charged or held accountable and this is
why we called before this war for the
record of impunity in the Israeli Army
killing of journalists the standing and
the longstanding record to face public
scrutiny and we called on International
investigation and international media to
be allowed immediately into Gaza uh
these are the things that I think will
help uh uncover the truth and ensure
Israel cannot hide any evidence of its
violations as the international court of
justice order and when you make such
calls what is the response that you
get well we make those calls for all
International and also us allies
including the US government including
European allies we have called on them
to ask for Rapid investigation and they
have done so in the case of Isam
Abdullah uh secretary blinkin have
called for the results of the
investigation in his case to come as
soon as possible but we've also asked
for review of arms exports to Israel to
ensure that the use of these arms are
happening according to international law
and US law including Ley law that makes
sure that those arms are not used in
human rights atrocities including
attacks against journalists we've also
called for them to pressure and call out
Israeli Army on the Rules of Engagement
to reform them so that they can stop
disregarding things like press Insignia
and make sure that the investigation
that they have done are transparent and
Rapid but also if they are not done
properly internationally prosecuted
including in the international criminal
court right let me just uh finally ask
you um are uh about another call that
you've made now cpg called for an
independent investigation into the
killing of another Al jazer journalist
you mentioned him a moment too Hamza D
and cameraman mustafaa can you let us
know what the latest is on
that well we we have included them as
part of at least a z case among the 80
five journalists that we have counted
and confirmed that been killed uh on or
doing journalism some of them we have
strong evidence that there is an Israeli
Army culpability and that includes the
three drone attacks that happen against
al jazer but also precise un targeted
attacks including Shilling to journalist
cars their homes uh even their families
after receiving threats and that has
happened with another Al jazer
journalist and others who have also lost
families in is bombardment we're calling
for all of these to be investigated but
prioritizing the ones that we see this
cability to make sure that the
perpetrators are held
accountable okay we'll leave it there
Sharif mansur thank you for speaking to
us from
DC